docs: Revamp manage-tokens chapters (#777)
oasisprotocol/docs: docs/general/manage-tokens/staking-and-delegating.md

# Staking and Delegating

> The Oasis network is a proof-of-stake network. This means that the **voting power

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Oasis Network is a proof-of-stake network. This means that the **voting power
```

> in the network is determined by the amount of tokens an entity posses**. For

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the network is determined by the amount of tokens staked to an entity**. For
```
(e.g. possession of tokens does not give you more voting power, tokens need to be staked)

> example, the amount of tokens determines, how frequent the validator will be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
example, the amount of staked tokens determines, how frequent the validator will be
```

> elected to propose a new block. And each epoch, the staking reward is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
elected to propose a new block. Each epoch, the staking reward is
```

distributed among the validators based on the amount of the tokens they
*stake*. You can check out the **current staking rewards** in the [Token metrics
chapter][current staking rewards].

But it's not just the validators that can stake. You can *delegate* your tokens
to a validator and earn **passive income**, when the validator receives the

> staking reward. Of course, the validator may cut his share (the *commission

Reviewer: ```suggestion
staking reward. Of course, the validator may reduce their share (the *commission
```

fee*) for running the validator node hardware, but in essence staking **improves

> the security of the network** since by paying the commission fee, you reward

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the security of the network** because paying the commission fee rewards
```

good validators and expel the malicious ones.

> 

Reviewer 2: Should also say that if a validator misbehaves they can be slashed so you can actually lose a portion of your tokens if you delegate to a bad validator.

[current staking rewards]: ../oasis-network/token-metrics-and-distribution.mdx#staking-incentives

Keep in mind that when you undelegate your tokens, you will need to wait
the **debonding period** to pass in which you will not earn any rewards. Currently,
this period is **336 epochs (~14 days)**.

## How to Delegate?

Staking can only be performed on the **consensus layer** by the Oasis Wallet -

> Web, Browser extension or the CLI. Some dApps running in ParaTimes may also

Reviewer 2: Incorrect, CLI supports staking from ParaTimes.

offer staking tokens by implicitly executing the consensus layer staking
transaction for you.

You can check out the current validator set, their escrow of staked tokens, the
commission rate, and the availability in the [Oasis Scan explorer][explorer-validators].

![The validator set in the morning of March 29, 2024](../images/manage-tokens/oasisscan_validators.png)

:::info

Some validators prefer anonymity and they do not list their name or any contact
information. In this case only their entity's Oasis address is shown.

:::

Regardless of which validator you pick, **you will earn the same reward as long
as the validator is online, proposes and signs valid blocks**. We suggest

> that you avoid delegating your tokens to the ones with the largest escrow since

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that you avoid delegating your tokens to the ones with the largest delegations since
```

Reviewer: Could we be a little bit stronger and say we recommend that you consider/evaluate validators (without the largest delegations), basically suggest positive priorities.

this **concentrates the voting power and potentially reduces the network
security**. Also, you may notice that the top validators impose higher

> commission fees, because, well, they can afford to. 😉

Reviewer 2: This is not true in practice.
